# Research: Binary Space Partitioning (BSP) for Dungeon Generation
> Rough Draft

# Introduction/description
Binary Space Partitioning (BSP) is a procedural generation technique. This technique is used to recursively devide a large map area into smaller regions, eventually formaing a structure that can be used to place rooms and connect them.

BSP is based on the idea of splitting space into a binary tree structure, where each node represents a region of the map and each split creates two child regions. These child regions get reused until the desired outcome is fullfilled.

In procedural dungeon generation, BSP is commonly used for:
- Structured dungeon layouts
- Ensures all rooms are connected
- Being controllable

# Design/Implementation


# Result

# Conclusion

# References (possible links)
wikipedia
arxiv 

# Things i want to do (goals):
- BSP dungeon generation normal
- Time measuring how long generation takes
- maybe MAYBE even make a hybrid generation (inspired by the game "Barony")

# General BSP explanation
## What is BSP (wikipedia) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_space_partitioning#Overview
BSP is a method for space partitioning which recusively subdivdes a space into two new spaces. 
this process of subdividing gives rise to a representation of objects within the space in the form of a tree data structure known as a **Binary Space Partitioning**.

BSP was created for 3D computer graphics in 1969 because it can efficiently give spatial information about objects in a scene for rendering.

A disadvantage of binary space partitioning is that generating a BSP tree can be time-consuming. Typically it is therefore performed once on static geometry, as a pre-calculation step, prior to rendering or other real-time operations in a scene.
The expense of constructing a BSP tree makes it difficult and inefficient to directly implement moving object into a tree.

> application, BSP treses are often used by 3d video games, particularly first-person shooters and those with indoor environments. BSP gets used in engine such as Doom, Quake, GoldSrc and Source engines. In them BSP trees containing the static geometry of a scene are often used together with a Z-buffer, to correctly merge movable objects such as doors and characters onto the background scene. While binary space partitioning provides a convenient way to store and retrieve spatial information about polygons in a scene, it does not solve the problem of visible surface determination. bsp trees have also been applied to image compression.

## what is BSP (GeekForGeeks) https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dsa/binary-space-partitioning/
recursive subdividing a space blabla bla.
arose in the context of 3D computer graphics 1969. used for rendering a scene, for objects being ordered from front to back
mentioning painters algorithm again.
solved the problems of painters alogrithm that were:
- the time required to sort polygons in the back to front order ( cyclic overlaps)
- prvious polygons with each closer objects. (intersecting polygons)

bsp is treated as a generic process of **recusively** dividing a scene into two until the partitioning **satisfies one or more requirements**

Disadvantage of BSP:
- Generating a BSP tree can be time-consuming
- BSP does not solve the problem of visible surface determination.

Uses of BSP
- It is used in collision detection in 3D video games and robotics.
- it is used in ray tracing
- it is involved in the handling of complex spatial scenes=

# BSP for roguelike dungeon generationnnnnnnn
## Dungeon generation using BSP trees https://medium.com/@guribemontero/dungeon-generation-using-binary-space-trees-47d4a668e2d0
The tricky part in procedural generation is not to make things random, but to make them in a **consistent** way despite its randomness.

BSP is a recursive blablabalbal

with these generated spaces we're going to use the space divisions generated by this method to define the area a room will use and the tree defined implicitly by it to know which rooms to connect.

this project also uses **UNITY** as i was planning to.

Step 1 Space division (BSP)
step 2 adding borders (adding padding between the "rooms")
step 3 adding coridors (connecting all the rooms with eachtoher through using leafs of the Binary space tree)

## Basic BSP Dungeon generation https://www.roguebasin.com/index.php/Basic_BSP_Dungeon_generation
split a rectangle AANNNNDDD exacty same steps as the previous article
NVM with step 2. we could **randomize** the scale of the leaf. making it even more random. and giving them even a new location in the leaf area.

# Procedural dungeon generation survey papers (inspiration)
## A Survey of Procedural Dungeon Generation https://www.sbgames.org/sbgames2019/files/papers/ComputacaoFull/198359.pdf
## honeslty probably the same as above but through a third party website https://www.researchgate.net/publication/353921862_Procedural_Dungeon_Generation_A_Survey